lab-02/README.md, before:

# Lab 02 - Creating an app using Docker build

In this exercise we will learn how to create an application from a Dockerfile.
OpenShift takes Dockerfile as an input and generates your application Docker
image for you.

## Task 1: Creating a project or use an existing project

If you want to, you can create a new project based on what you have learned in
the previous lab. Since we already have a project we will use it. Run the
following command to make sure.

```
oc new-project labs-${USERNAME}

oc project labs-${USERNAME}
```

## Task 2: Creating an app using a Dockerfile

This time we will use a project that has a Dockerfile in a source code
repository. We will use a simple project on github https://github.com/gluobe/time.
The `rhel` folder from this github project is built starting with rhel7 as the
base image which is described in Dockerfile. Look at the Dockerfile for this
project. It starts off with `registry.access.redhat.com/rhel7` image. It copies
the source code which is a simple `init.sh` file and exposes port `8080`.
Look at the `init.sh` that just displays the current datetime. There is also a
PHP version of the same project available in the php folder if you like to use
that. The php version does exactly the same it has a `time.php` file that
displays the time.

*Docker Build*: When OpenShift finds a Dockerfile in the source, it uses this
Dockerfile as the basis to create a docker image for your application. This
strategy is called `Docker Build` strategy on OpenShift. We’ll see more about it
when we look at the build configuration a couple of steps down the line. Once
OpenShift builds the application’s docker image, it stores that in a local
docker registry. Later it uses this image to deploy an application that runs in
a pod.

Now let’s create an application using this approach. We will run `oc new-app`
command by supplying the git uri as the parameter.

```
oc new-app https://github.com/gluobe/time --context-dir=rhel

--> Found Docker image 1d309a6 (6 weeks old) from registry.access.redhat.com for "registry.access.redhat.com/rhel7"

    * An image stream will be created as "rhel7:latest" that will track the source image
    * A Docker build using source code from https://github.com/RedHatWorkshops/time will be created
      * The resulting image will be pushed to image stream "time:latest"
      * Every time "rhel7:latest" changes a new build will be triggered
    * This image will be deployed in deployment config "time"
    * Port 8080 will be load balanced by service "time"
      * Other containers can access this service through the hostname "time"
    * WARNING: Image "registry.access.redhat.com/rhel7" runs as the 'root' user which may not be permitted by your cluster administrator

--> Creating resources with label app=time ...
    imagestream "rhel7" created
    imagestream "time" created
    buildconfig "time" created
    deploymentconfig "time" created
    service "time" created
--> Success
    Build scheduled, use 'oc logs -f bc/time' to track its progress.
    Run 'oc status' to view your app.
```

You’ll notice that OpenShift created a few things at this point. You will find a
buildconfig, deploymentconfig, service and imagestreams in the above list. The
application is not running yet. It needs to be built and deployed. Within a
minute or so, you will see that OpenShift starts the build.

## Task 3: Build

In the meanwhile lets have a look at the buildconfig by running the command
shown below.

```
oc get bc time -o json

{
    "kind": "BuildConfig",
    "apiVersion": "v1",
    "metadata": {
        "name": "time",
        "namespace": "mycliproject-user10",
        "selfLink": "/oapi/v1/namespaces/mycliproject-admin/buildconfigs/time",
        "uid": "ac4beccd-9569-11e6-ad4c-000d3af733e4",
        "resourceVersion": "134692",
        "creationTimestamp": "2016-10-18T19:32:57Z",
        "labels": {
            "app": "time"
        },
        "annotations": {
            "openshift.io/generated-by": "OpenShiftNewApp"
        }
    },
    "spec": {
        "triggers": [
            {
                "type": "GitHub",
                "github": {
                    "secret": "1pOQJ1G5tr6M70CQ5779"
                }
            },
            {
                "type": "Generic",
                "generic": {
                    "secret": "Bge9C-De7rm9PPDG_EQR"
                }
            },
            {
                "type": "ConfigChange"
            },
            {
                "type": "ImageChange",
                "imageChange": {
                    "lastTriggeredImageID": "registry.access.redhat.com/rhel7@sha256:eac2421be7a6844a5c83b8f394d1f5f121b18fa4e455c5f09be940e0384a1d97"
                }
            }
        ],
        "runPolicy": "Serial",
        "source": {
            "type": "Git",
            "git": {
                "uri": "https://github.com/RedHatWorkshops/time"
            },
            "contextDir": "rhel"
        },
        "strategy": {
            "type": "Docker",
            "dockerStrategy": {
                "from": {
                    "kind": "ImageStreamTag",
                    "name": "rhel7:latest"
                }
            }
        },
        "output": {
            "to": {
                "kind": "ImageStreamTag",
                "name": "time:latest"
            }
        },
        "resources": {},
        "postCommit": {}
    },
    "status": {
        "lastVersion": 1
    }
}
```

Note the name of the buildconfig in metadata is set to `time`, the git uri
pointing to the value you gave while creating the application. Also note the
Strategy.type set to `Docker`. This indicates that the build will use the
instructions in this Dockerfile to do the docker build.

Build starts in a minute or so. You can view the list of builds using
`oc get builds` command. You can also start the build using
`oc start-build time` where `time` is the name we noticed in the buildconfig.

```
oc get builds

NAME      TYPE      FROM          STATUS     STARTED          DURATION
time-1    Docker    Git@1ec2d66   Complete   19 minutes ago   1m13s
```

Note the name of the build that is running i.e. time-1. We will use that name to
look at the build logs. Run the command as shown below to look at the build
logs. This will run for a few mins. At the end you will notice that the docker
image is successfully created and it will start pushing this to OpenShift’s
internal docker registry.

```
oc logs build/time-1

<output ommited>
Successfully built 492e4a3bf772
Pushing image docker-registry.default.svc:5000/mycliproject-user02/time:latest ...
Pushed 0/5 layers, 60% complete
Pushed 1/5 layers, 60% complete
Pushed 2/5 layers, 63% complete
Pushed 3/5 layers, 62% complete
Pushed 4/5 layers, 80% complete
Pushed 5/5 layers, 100% complete
Push successful
```

In the above log note how the image is pushed to the local docker registry. The
registry is running at `docker-registry.default.svc` at port `5000`.

## Task 4: Deployment

Once the image is pushed to the docker registry, OpenShift will trigger a deploy
process. Let us also quickly look at the deployment configuration by running the
following command. Note dc represents deploymentconfig.

```
oc get dc -o json

{
    "apiVersion": "v1",
    "items": [
        {
            "apiVersion": "v1",
            "kind": "DeploymentConfig",
            "metadata": {
                "annotations": {
                    "openshift.io/generated-by": "OpenShiftNewApp"
                },
                "creationTimestamp": "2018-01-15T18:07:34Z",
                "generation": 2,
                "labels": {
                    "app": "time"
                },
                "name": "time",
                "namespace": "mycliproject-user02",
                "resourceVersion": "37867345",
                "selfLink": "/oapi/v1/namespaces/mycliproject-user02/deploymentconfigs/time",
                "uid": "f63997bb-fa1e-11e7-9e8e-06d3bdd62498"
            },
            "spec": {
                "replicas": 1,
                "revisionHistoryLimit": 10,
                "selector": {
                    "app": "time",
                    "deploymentconfig": "time"
                },
                "strategy": {
                    "activeDeadlineSeconds": 21600,
                    "resources": {},
                    "rollingParams": {
                        "intervalSeconds": 1,
                        "maxSurge": "25%",
                        "maxUnavailable": "25%",
                        "timeoutSeconds": 600,
                        "updatePeriodSeconds": 1
                    },
                    "type": "Rolling"
                },
                "template": {
                    "metadata": {
                        "annotations": {
                            "openshift.io/generated-by": "OpenShiftNewApp"
                        },
                        "creationTimestamp": null,
                        "labels": {
                            "app": "time",
                            "deploymentconfig": "time"
                        }
                    },
                    "spec": {
                        "containers": [
                            {
                                "image": "docker-registry.default.svc:5000/mycliproject-user02/time@sha256:a8f34cc98aba4a68d3566f3ea387295f7a2945347ffc7794246cd8a89b556706",
                                "imagePullPolicy": "Always",
                                "name": "time",
                                "ports": [
                                    {
                                        "containerPort": 8080,
                                        "protocol": "TCP"
                                    }
                                ],
                                "resources": {},
                                "terminationMessagePath": "/dev/termination-log",
                                "terminationMessagePolicy": "File"
                            }
                        ],
                        "dnsPolicy": "ClusterFirst",
                        "restartPolicy": "Always",
                        "schedulerName": "default-scheduler",
                        "securityContext": {},
                        "terminationGracePeriodSeconds": 30
                    }
                },
                "test": false,
                "triggers": [
                    {
                        "type": "ConfigChange"
                    },
                    {
                        "imageChangeParams": {
                            "automatic": true,
                            "containerNames": [
                                "time"
                            ],
                            "from": {
                                "kind": "ImageStreamTag",
                                "name": "time:latest",
                                "namespace": "mycliproject-user02"
                            },
                            "lastTriggeredImage": "docker-registry.default.svc:5000/mycliproject-user02/time@sha256:a8f34cc98aba4a68d3566f3ea387295f7a2945347ffc7794246cd8a89b556706"
                        },
                        "type": "ImageChange"
                    }
                ]
            },
            "status": {
                "availableReplicas": 1,
                "conditions": [
                    {
                        "lastTransitionTime": "2018-01-15T18:08:51Z",
                        "lastUpdateTime": "2018-01-15T18:08:51Z",
                        "message": "Deployment config has minimum availability.",
                        "status": "True",
                        "type": "Available"
                    },
                    {
                        "lastTransitionTime": "2018-01-15T18:08:49Z",
                        "lastUpdateTime": "2018-01-15T18:08:52Z",
                        "message": "replication controller \"time-1\" successfully rolled out",
                        "reason": "NewReplicationControllerAvailable",
                        "status": "True",
                        "type": "Progressing"
                    }
                ],
                "details": {
                    "causes": [
                        {
                            "type": "ConfigChange"
                        }
                    ],
                    "message": "config change"
                },
                "latestVersion": 1,
                "observedGeneration": 2,
                "readyReplicas": 1,
                "replicas": 1,
                "unavailableReplicas": 0,
                "updatedReplicas": 1
            }
        }
    ],
    "kind": "List",
    "metadata": {
        "resourceVersion": "",
        "selfLink": ""
    }
}
```

Note where the image is picked from. It shows that the deployment picks the
image from the local registry (same ip address and port as in buildconfig) and
the image tag is same as what we built earlier. This means the deployment step
deploys the application image what was built earlier during the build step.

If you get the list of pods, you’ll notice that the application gets deployed
quickly and starts running in its own pod.

```
oc get pods

NAME           READY     STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
time-1-build   0/1       Completed   0          2h
time-1-rqa7c   1/1       Running     0          2h
```

## Task 5: Adding route

This step is very much the same as what we did in the previous exercise. We will
check the service and add a route to expose that service.

```
oc get services

NAME      CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
time      172.30.xx.82   <none>        8080/TCP   2h
```

Here we expose the service as a route.

```
oc expose service time

NAME      HOST/PORT   PATH      SERVICE   LABELS     TLS TERMINATION
time                            time      app=time
```

And then we check the route exposed.

```
oc get routes

NAME      HOST/PORT                                           PATH      SERVICES   PORT       TERMINATION   WILDCARD
time      time-mycliproject-UserName.apps.workshop.osecloud.com             time       8080-tcp                 None
```

## Task 6: Running the application

Now run the application by using the route you provided in the previous step.
You can use either curl or your browser. The application displays time.
*If you don’t provide time.php extension, it displays apache’s default index
page.*

```
curl time-mycliproject-UserName.apps.workshop.osecloud.com
Wednesday 1st of July 2015 01:12:20 AM
```

Congratulations!! In this exercise you have learnt how to create, build and
deploy an application using OpenShift’s `Docker Build strategy`.

## Task 7 : Delete your project

Delete the project with the following command.

```
oc delete project labs-${USERNAME}
```

Commit message:

edit output in application, not time but message!

lab-02/README.md, after:

# Lab 02 - Creating an app using Docker build

In this exercise we will learn how to create an application from a Dockerfile.
OpenShift takes Dockerfile as an input and generates your application Docker
image for you.

## Task 1: Creating a project or use an existing project

If you want to, you can create a new project based on what you have learned in
the previous lab. Since we already have a project we will use it. Run the
following command to make sure.

```
oc new-project labs-${USERNAME}

oc project labs-${USERNAME}
```

## Task 2: Creating an app using a Dockerfile

This time we will use a project that has a Dockerfile in a source code
repository. We will use a simple project on github https://github.com/gluobe/time.
The `rhel` folder from this github project is built starting with rhel7 as the
base image which is described in Dockerfile. Look at the Dockerfile for this
project. It starts off with `registry.access.redhat.com/rhel7` image. It copies
the source code which is a simple `init.sh` file and exposes port `8080`.
Look at the `init.sh` that just displays the current datetime. There is also a
PHP version of the same project available in the php folder if you like to use
that. The php version does exactly the same it has a `time.php` file that
displays the time.

*Docker Build*: When OpenShift finds a Dockerfile in the source, it uses this
Dockerfile as the basis to create a docker image for your application. This
strategy is called `Docker Build` strategy on OpenShift. We’ll see more about it
when we look at the build configuration a couple of steps down the line. Once
OpenShift builds the application’s docker image, it stores that in a local
docker registry. Later it uses this image to deploy an application that runs in
a pod.

Now let’s create an application using this approach. We will run `oc new-app`
command by supplying the git uri as the parameter.

```
oc new-app https://github.com/gluobe/time --context-dir=rhel

--> Found Docker image 1d309a6 (6 weeks old) from registry.access.redhat.com for "registry.access.redhat.com/rhel7"

    * An image stream will be created as "rhel7:latest" that will track the source image
    * A Docker build using source code from https://github.com/RedHatWorkshops/time will be created
      * The resulting image will be pushed to image stream "time:latest"
      * Every time "rhel7:latest" changes a new build will be triggered
    * This image will be deployed in deployment config "time"
    * Port 8080 will be load balanced by service "time"
      * Other containers can access this service through the hostname "time"
    * WARNING: Image "registry.access.redhat.com/rhel7" runs as the 'root' user which may not be permitted by your cluster administrator

--> Creating resources with label app=time ...
    imagestream "rhel7" created
    imagestream "time" created
    buildconfig "time" created
    deploymentconfig "time" created
    service "time" created
--> Success
    Build scheduled, use 'oc logs -f bc/time' to track its progress.
    Run 'oc status' to view your app.
```

You’ll notice that OpenShift created a few things at this point. You will find a
buildconfig, deploymentconfig, service and imagestreams in the above list. The
application is not running yet. It needs to be built and deployed. Within a
minute or so, you will see that OpenShift starts the build.

## Task 3: Build

In the meanwhile lets have a look at the buildconfig by running the command
shown below.

```
oc get bc time -o json

{
    "kind": "BuildConfig",
    "apiVersion": "v1",
    "metadata": {
        "name": "time",
        "namespace": "mycliproject-user10",
        "selfLink": "/oapi/v1/namespaces/mycliproject-admin/buildconfigs/time",
        "uid": "ac4beccd-9569-11e6-ad4c-000d3af733e4",
        "resourceVersion": "134692",
        "creationTimestamp": "2016-10-18T19:32:57Z",
        "labels": {
            "app": "time"
        },
        "annotations": {
            "openshift.io/generated-by": "OpenShiftNewApp"
        }
    },
    "spec": {
        "triggers": [
            {
                "type": "GitHub",
                "github": {
                    "secret": "1pOQJ1G5tr6M70CQ5779"
                }
            },
            {
                "type": "Generic",
                "generic": {
                    "secret": "Bge9C-De7rm9PPDG_EQR"
                }
            },
            {
                "type": "ConfigChange"
            },
            {
                "type": "ImageChange",
                "imageChange": {
                    "lastTriggeredImageID": "registry.access.redhat.com/rhel7@sha256:eac2421be7a6844a5c83b8f394d1f5f121b18fa4e455c5f09be940e0384a1d97"
                }
            }
        ],
        "runPolicy": "Serial",
        "source": {
            "type": "Git",
            "git": {
                "uri": "https://github.com/RedHatWorkshops/time"
            },
            "contextDir": "rhel"
        },
        "strategy": {
            "type": "Docker",
            "dockerStrategy": {
                "from": {
                    "kind": "ImageStreamTag",
                    "name": "rhel7:latest"
                }
            }
        },
        "output": {
            "to": {
                "kind": "ImageStreamTag",
                "name": "time:latest"
            }
        },
        "resources": {},
        "postCommit": {}
    },
    "status": {
        "lastVersion": 1
    }
}
```

Note the name of the buildconfig in metadata is set to `time`, the git uri
pointing to the value you gave while creating the application. Also note the
Strategy.type set to `Docker`. This indicates that the build will use the
instructions in this Dockerfile to do the docker build.

Build starts in a minute or so. You can view the list of builds using
`oc get builds` command. You can also start the build using
`oc start-build time` where `time` is the name we noticed in the buildconfig.

```
oc get builds

NAME      TYPE      FROM          STATUS     STARTED          DURATION
time-1    Docker    Git@1ec2d66   Complete   19 minutes ago   1m13s
```

Note the name of the build that is running i.e. time-1. We will use that name to
look at the build logs. Run the command as shown below to look at the build
logs. This will run for a few mins. At the end you will notice that the docker
image is successfully created and it will start pushing this to OpenShift’s
internal docker registry.

```
oc logs build/time-1

<output ommited>
Successfully built 492e4a3bf772
Pushing image docker-registry.default.svc:5000/mycliproject-user02/time:latest ...
Pushed 0/5 layers, 60% complete
Pushed 1/5 layers, 60% complete
Pushed 2/5 layers, 63% complete
Pushed 3/5 layers, 62% complete
Pushed 4/5 layers, 80% complete
Pushed 5/5 layers, 100% complete
Push successful
```

In the above log note how the image is pushed to the local docker registry. The
registry is running at `docker-registry.default.svc` at port `5000`.

## Task 4: Deployment

Once the image is pushed to the docker registry, OpenShift will trigger a deploy
process. Let us also quickly look at the deployment configuration by running the
following command. Note dc represents deploymentconfig.

```
oc get dc -o json

{
    "apiVersion": "v1",
    "items": [
        {
            "apiVersion": "v1",
            "kind": "DeploymentConfig",
            "metadata": {
                "annotations": {
                    "openshift.io/generated-by": "OpenShiftNewApp"
                },
                "creationTimestamp": "2018-01-15T18:07:34Z",
                "generation": 2,
                "labels": {
                    "app": "time"
                },
                "name": "time",
                "namespace": "mycliproject-user02",
                "resourceVersion": "37867345",
                "selfLink": "/oapi/v1/namespaces/mycliproject-user02/deploymentconfigs/time",
                "uid": "f63997bb-fa1e-11e7-9e8e-06d3bdd62498"
            },
            "spec": {
                "replicas": 1,
                "revisionHistoryLimit": 10,
                "selector": {
                    "app": "time",
                    "deploymentconfig": "time"
                },
                "strategy": {
                    "activeDeadlineSeconds": 21600,
                    "resources": {},
                    "rollingParams": {
                        "intervalSeconds": 1,
                        "maxSurge": "25%",
                        "maxUnavailable": "25%",
                        "timeoutSeconds": 600,
                        "updatePeriodSeconds": 1
                    },
                    "type": "Rolling"
                },
                "template": {
                    "metadata": {
                        "annotations": {
                            "openshift.io/generated-by": "OpenShiftNewApp"
                        },
                        "creationTimestamp": null,
                        "labels": {
                            "app": "time",
                            "deploymentconfig": "time"
                        }
                    },
                    "spec": {
                        "containers": [
                            {
                                "image": "docker-registry.default.svc:5000/mycliproject-user02/time@sha256:a8f34cc98aba4a68d3566f3ea387295f7a2945347ffc7794246cd8a89b556706",
                                "imagePullPolicy": "Always",
                                "name": "time",
                                "ports": [
                                    {
                                        "containerPort": 8080,
                                        "protocol": "TCP"
                                    }
                                ],
                                "resources": {},
                                "terminationMessagePath": "/dev/termination-log",
                                "terminationMessagePolicy": "File"
                            }
                        ],
                        "dnsPolicy": "ClusterFirst",
                        "restartPolicy": "Always",
                        "schedulerName": "default-scheduler",
                        "securityContext": {},
                        "terminationGracePeriodSeconds": 30
                    }
                },
                "test": false,
                "triggers": [
                    {
                        "type": "ConfigChange"
                    },
                    {
                        "imageChangeParams": {
                            "automatic": true,
                            "containerNames": [
                                "time"
                            ],
                            "from": {
                                "kind": "ImageStreamTag",
                                "name": "time:latest",
                                "namespace": "mycliproject-user02"
                            },
                            "lastTriggeredImage": "docker-registry.default.svc:5000/mycliproject-user02/time@sha256:a8f34cc98aba4a68d3566f3ea387295f7a2945347ffc7794246cd8a89b556706"
                        },
                        "type": "ImageChange"
                    }
                ]
            },
            "status": {
                "availableReplicas": 1,
                "conditions": [
                    {
                        "lastTransitionTime": "2018-01-15T18:08:51Z",
                        "lastUpdateTime": "2018-01-15T18:08:51Z",
                        "message": "Deployment config has minimum availability.",
                        "status": "True",
                        "type": "Available"
                    },
                    {
                        "lastTransitionTime": "2018-01-15T18:08:49Z",
                        "lastUpdateTime": "2018-01-15T18:08:52Z",
                        "message": "replication controller \"time-1\" successfully rolled out",
                        "reason": "NewReplicationControllerAvailable",
                        "status": "True",
                        "type": "Progressing"
                    }
                ],
                "details": {
                    "causes": [
                        {
                            "type": "ConfigChange"
                        }
                    ],
                    "message": "config change"
                },
                "latestVersion": 1,
                "observedGeneration": 2,
                "readyReplicas": 1,
                "replicas": 1,
                "unavailableReplicas": 0,
                "updatedReplicas": 1
            }
        }
    ],
    "kind": "List",
    "metadata": {
        "resourceVersion": "",
        "selfLink": ""
    }
}
```

Note where the image is picked from. It shows that the deployment picks the
image from the local registry (same ip address and port as in buildconfig) and
the image tag is same as what we built earlier. This means the deployment step
deploys the application image what was built earlier during the build step.

If you get the list of pods, you’ll notice that the application gets deployed
quickly and starts running in its own pod.

```
oc get pods

NAME           READY     STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
time-1-build   0/1       Completed   0          2h
time-1-rqa7c   1/1       Running     0          2h
```

## Task 5: Adding route

This step is very much the same as what we did in the previous exercise. We will
check the service and add a route to expose that service.

```
oc get services

NAME      CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
time      172.30.xx.82   <none>        8080/TCP   2h
```

Here we expose the service as a route.

```
oc expose service time

NAME      HOST/PORT   PATH      SERVICE   LABELS     TLS TERMINATION
time                            time      app=time
```

And then we check the route exposed.

```
oc get routes

NAME      HOST/PORT                                           PATH      SERVICES   PORT       TERMINATION   WILDCARD
time      time-mycliproject-UserName.apps.workshop.osecloud.com             time       8080-tcp                 None
```

## Task 6: Running the application

Now run the application by using the route you provided in the previous step.
You can use either curl or your browser. The application displays a success
message.

```
curl time-mycliproject-UserName.apps.workshop.osecloud.com
Congratulations you just deployed your app by using a Docker build strategy!
```

Congratulations!! In this exercise you have learnt how to create, build and
deploy an application using OpenShift’s `Docker Build strategy`.

## Task 7 : Delete your project

Delete the project with the following command.

```
oc delete project labs-${USERNAME}
```
